# Betterment_Case_Study

## Background

Betterment, which came to market in 2010, is a *Robo-Advisor* platform created by Jonathan Stein, Eli Broverman, Sean Owen, and Ryan O'Sullivan in 2008. Jonathan originally had the idea, while the other three brought crucial knowledge to the company before its inception. It had "occurred to (Jonathan) that the concepts (he'd) learned while studying behavioral economics and biology in college could actually apply to the many mistakes (he) was making in managing (his) own investments" (LinkedIn). He regularly mentions a saying that he was taught in college which clearly shows his disrupter mentality: "is isn't ought" which means just because something is a certain way doesn't mean it should be that way.

While betterment was created in 2008 Jonathan and team were forced to wait two years to release the product to the market. This was due to the lengthy process of becoming a licensed Broker-Dealer. After two long years of taking no salaries and putting all their blood sweat and tears into the creation of this revolutionary product, they finally took the stage at TechCrunch Disrupt. TechCrunch Disrupt is a conference which hones in on industry players who are making waves in the tech world. Although they presented against many companies that had already secured funding, they were able to make waves and were honored with 'Biggest New York Disrupter'. This was great press for Betterment, and they quickly received 400 users on their platform. This buzz, and proof of interest, allowed them to secure their first round of funding.


## Business Activities

Betterment recognized that there was a large portion of the population that was under serviced while simultaneously being priced out of the currently offered wealth management options. They set out to create an affordable, accessible, and effective solution to this problem. Although Betterment may say that their solution is for everybody, and theoretically it is, its main target audient are people who cannot afford a traditional wealth manager and / or want a simpler solution. They achieve this by allowing users to have a 'robot' investor on their phone / laptop. By doing so the company can eliminate the human wealth manager and thus they are not limited to a certain number of clients, nor do they have the overhead cost of the wealth managers themselves. Furthermore, by using data driven investment based on modern portfolio theory, Betterment can confidently inform and direct clients without the need for human analysis. All of this equates to lower overhead and a lower barrier to entry for the client.

It should be noted that Betterment does now offer premium clients access to Certified Financial Planners (CFPs), Although, this is not their main target audience.

Betterment uses many different technologies. They use JavaScript, PHP, Ruby, and CSS3 to create an interactive and attractive user experience for their webpage. They also incorporate BackboneJS to provide models on their platform. Python is used to analyze data and help develop and automate their platform. NGINX is used to recognize incoming traffic then transfer it to available servers to control speeds / activity. They Use Cloudflare to protect their servers from spam attacks. Shell is the text terminal they use. They use Google Cloud as their cloud storage solution. They also use Amazon CloudFront to speed up their data transfer speeds allowing their users to have the most up to date real time data.


## Landscape

Betterment fits broadly within the Consumer Finance industry which contains companies and products that focus on borrowing, saving, and investing. The broad industry has seen tremendous change in the past 15 years with companies like Plaid, Affirm, and Upstart all stiving to bring fast and easy transactions to the public. More specifically, though, Betterment is in a smaller sector of the industry which is money management / Investments. Similar to the broader group, this corner of the industry has seen much change. No longer is the time when wealth managers can gate keep their simple, yet unobtainable, investment strategies. Betterment, as well as its competitors, now offer investment strategies previously only accessible to the public through a wealth manager. Although Betterment is the first and arguably the best Robo-Advisor, it is not the only Robo-Advisor in the Market. Some of its direct competitors are as follows: Wealthfront, SoFi, Vanguard Digital Advisor, Schwab Intelligent Portfolios, and Fidelity Go. Although these products are all fairly similar, Betterment has shown that it is the best platform for beginners. They hold this crown due to their very low barrier to entry: $0 required account balance and only a $10 requirement to begin investing.

## Results

The inception of Betterment has paved the way for a brand-new untapped market. They have allowed the common person to take advantage of what was previously only available to the rich. This has provided their target market with more autonomy and opportunity. By doing so Betterment has become very successful. This success can be measured by a few metrics, but mainly their Assets Under Management (AUM). Betterment has the highest AUM of any of the standalone Robo-Advisors. Their current AUM is $26.8 billion with 615,000 individual clients. This puts them $5.4 billion ahead of the next largest standalone Robo-Advisor, Wealthfront. Although Vanguard Digital Advisor and Schwab Intelligent Portfolios do have much higher AUMs, these are large established entities which were able to leverage their current client base and their recognition to amass a large user base.

## Recommendation

As this corner of the market continues to expand it becomes even more imperative to differentiate yourself from the crowd. As mentioned, Betterment already does this through providing the best platform for beginner investors, but soon the market will flood with many similar platforms targeting the same market. Based on my market analysis I think it would greatly benefit Betterment to provide access to individual stock picking. This would benefit them because it would attract young people who are interested in trading, in addition, because they are targeting beginner investors, they are often younger meaning they are likely interested in higher risk investments. Furthermore, others in the industry already have this technology. Betterment could develop this feature internally with the tools they already have at their disposal, although it will take a large investment. On the other hand, they could create a mutually beneficial partnership with Robinhood. Robinhood, similar to Betterment, has no account minimum and is for beginner investors. Robinhood receives the benefit of having a Robo-Advisor and ETF / Bond portfolios on their platform while Betterment would receive individual stock trading. This would make both platforms more well-rounded and allow for user base sharing.

---

#### Links:
[References](References)